---
{"dg-home":null,"dg-publish":true,"aliases":["free haven","Free Havens","free havens"],"permalink":"/piracy/locations/free-haven/","dgPassFrontmatter":true,"created":"2025-03-22T14:52:22.200+11:00","updated":"2025-03-26T16:15:54.653+11:00"}
---

Free Havens are the beating heart of [[Piracy/Pirates\|pirate]] life, sprawling coastal or floating cities built by pirates, for pirates. These vibrant hubs are designed to cater to every need of those who live on the waves, offering everything from raucous taverns and bustling markets to cozy inns and exotic restaurants. The docks are massive, capable of accommodating hundreds of ships at once, making Free Havens the perfect place for crews to rest, resupply, and revel after long voyages. Here, pirates can trade plunder, repair their ships, and share stories of their adventures, all while enjoying the unique freedom that these cities represent. Free Havens are everywhere spread throughout [[Terrors Passage\|Terrors Passage]], most being on random islands, while some are on [[Ovan Island\|Ovan Island]] and few are on the Mainland.

The population of a Free Haven is as diverse as the pirates who visit. While the cities are primarily populated by pirates, they also attract a mix of escaped convicts, retired adventurers, merchants, and even the occasional family seeking a life outside the rigid laws of the mainland. These small, permanent communities form the backbone of the Free Havens, running shops, inns, and other services that keep the cities thriving. Despite their rough edges, Free Havens are places of surprising camaraderie, where everyone—regardless of their past—can find a place to belong.

Originally, there were 21 Free Havens scattered across the seas, each a testament to the ingenuity and resilience of pirate culture. However, in the past two years, these sanctuaries have come under relentless attack by the [[Piracy/Ravagers/Ravagers\|Ravagers]]. Many Free Havens have been reduced to rubble, their populations scattered or enslaved, and their treasures plundered. Now, only 13 remain, each one more heavily fortified and fiercely defended than ever before. For pirates and adventurers alike, they are not just safe harbours—they are the last bastions of freedom in an increasingly dangerous world.